# asteroids-game-ai

It is game of asteroids where you can steer ship and shoot asteroids down. It contains implemented artificial intelligence that steer the ship by itself and learn to play using neural net and genetic algoritm.</ br>
The game was developed with SFML library. It contains classes with game objects which are created under SFML rules. The class Collisions was created to cover collissions of all objects. It contains pointers to window, asteroids, bullets and player which allows to work comfortably with all events. I have also created static and non-static classes Random which let me to control randomness in my program - sometimes I need repeatable behaviour.</ br>
In my opinion, the most interesting part of the project is ai part. I can divide it in two main sections.</ br>
The first one is neural network. I created it from scratch basing on matrices. Each layer of net is different matrix. The matrix is represented by vector of vectors which allows to manage and do calculations easily. Each neural net consists from 3 matrices which represents weights of input layer, hidden layer and output layer.</ br>
The second part of ai is implementation of genetic algorithm which allows to train neural net. According to fundamentals of genetic algorithm, I' ve created population which represents group of individuals playing game. In my implementation individuals are represented by generations, because every player need to have its own asteroids and bullets, because it can interact with them. It generated efficiency problems but I am planning to add multithreading to solve it.
Each generation own neural network and statistics that let to choose best inviduals to create next generation.</ br>
Implemented genetic algorithm works as follows. When all individuals of population are dead the best one is choosen with fitness function and pass to next population. Then half-1 of individuals are choosen randomly, but accordingly to their score(the higher score, the higher probality) and they are passed to the next population. Then, the rest half of population is created by choosing randomly(again accordingly to score) two of individuals and crossing them.</ br>
The program is working and I can observe that players are learning, but there are some efficiency problems which really slow down the evolution. They occur because c++ does not support multithreding by deafult so I want to implement it in the future. 
